Paper ideas

Based on \citet{Soest2018}

"Many studies also found an association between a short birth interval
and infant death of the next child, particularly when the preceding
sibling survived [21–23]. An explanation for this is that the mother has
not recuperated physiologically from the previous birth [24–25].
"

!this is an important point. In the literature, the mortality effect discussed
generally comes from the subsequent child, not the prior one. 
Hence, longer spacing should be beneficial for the boy born next if 
sex selection has been used.
This could explain part of the reduction in female mortality: The
girls that would "normally" have been born relatively soon after the
prior birth, and, therefore, have higher mortality risk, now are no
longer born.


"Sibling competition may also explain why short birth intervals and high
fertility increase death risk: sources of food and care per head
diminish as the number of dependent members of a family increases [5].
"

this effect can be used to explain any reductions in mortality for
the prior girls.

A type of this would be cession of breastfeeding because of a short
birth interval - see Conde et al. paper below for discussion of 
breastfeeding. 


This might be something to test in a new paper. Mortality risk should
go down differentially across parities with access to sex selection,
depending on the sex of the prior child. This effect should be larger
for families more likely to use sex selection, i.e. higher education
women.
Since we do not know actual use of sex selection, one possibility
would be to used the area's sex ratio for the type of family.
A caveat is that sibling competition is less likely to occur, which
would also reduce mortality for the prior child, although possibly
less.
A first step would be to check on mortality levels among the
well-educated women.




\citep{Jayachandran2011}:
p1518: In India, girls have a 40% higher mortality rate, relative to
boys, betweentheages ofoneandfivebut anequal mortalityratebefore age one
(Acharya 2004).

p 1519: researchers have documented that in India excess female mortality is
mutedfor first births (Das Gupta 1987; RetherfordandRoy 2003). In line
with this fact, we findrelatively little gender difference in
breastfeeding for first-born children (Figure IV).

\citep{Jayachandran2011} also estimate mortality

