# Delay effect notes

[from conceptual framework section]
If parents realize that longer spacing leads to better child outcomes, we may even observe 
later conception, especially when, with sex selection, the next child is likely to be a boy.
Working in the opposite direction of this "delay" effect is that women with more education 
can, in principle, space their children closer together without substantially increasing 
child mortality risk. 
However, given the apparent lack of pressure to return to the labor force, this effect is 
likely small.



The problem with identifying a ``delay'' effect is that both abortions and the delay
effect works in the same direction.
A constant use of abortions within a spell means that the percentage increase in
birth intervals are the same across all percentiles.
Hence, with abortions we should see an increase in all three percentiles even in the
absence of a delay effect.



[This is wrong, at least the part about being able to identify the timing effect]
Presenting the three different percentile birth intervals rather than, say, just the 
median birth interval makes it possible to identify the extent to which people 
change the timing of when they try to conceive differentially across time and spells.
If the probability of conception and the rate of abortion of female fetuses were constant 
within a spell, any percentile birth interval would be a sufficient statistics since the 
ratios of birth intervals both within and across given abortion regimes would be constant.
That is, all percentile birth interval lengthen with lower probability of conception and 
higher abortion rates, but the ratio of one percentile birth interval to another percentile 
birth interval within a spell is independent both of the abortion rate and the conception 
probability.
Similarly, the ratio of a given percentile birth interval with one abortion rate to the 
same percentile at another abortion rate is constant across all percentiles and depends 
only on the abortion rate. 
Hence, the only reason we should see a change in, for example, the ratio of the 50th to
the 25th percentile birth interval over time or across sex compositions would be if the
probabilities of conception and abortion varied differentially within spells.


[original text from paper, wrong as well]
Although most of the increases come from among the longer intervals, there is some 
evidence for the ``delay'' effect discussed above, where parents conceive later
precisely because they know that the next child is likely to be a boy since they plan
to use sex selection.
The best example is for the best-educated urban women in the third spell, where, in the 
last two periods, the spacing to the third child is significantly longer if the two prior 
children were girls than if they already had one or two boys.
These two periods are the periods where the predicted sex ratios are 70 and 80 percent,
respectively.
There is also a significantly longer spacing with only girls for women with eight to
eleven years of education in the last period for the third and fourth spell, although
the difference is substantially smaller.

[from conclusion]

Despite the longer average birth intervals, a large number of women still have very 
short birth intervals. 
Hence, the changes in birth spacing are driven predominately by the longer intervals 
becoming even longer over time.
This pattern holds generally, but is especially prevalent for those who use sex selection 
and, therefore, may end up with multiple abortions. 
The exception to the small change in short spacing is the delay in conception for women 
with very high use of sex selection, presumably because this group knows that
the next child will be a boy.


