Notes and snippets:


[How sex selection can happen in the absence of son preference - just because of balance]

Son preference, however, manifests in two ways in this model.
First, if $\alpha$ is larger than 0.5 parents gain more utility
from having an additional son than from an additional daughter---provided
the had the same number of sons and daughters before.
Second, parents will never abort a male fetus, only a female one.
This explains why even when parents have equal utility from an additional
son or daughter sex ratios still increases as cost of children 
increases and cost of prenatal scans decline.

At $\alpha = 0.5$ parents prefer an equal number of boys and girls.
The more children you have the less likely it is that you will
resort to sex selection to ensure a balance between sons and daughters.
First, the chances of having, for example, only boys or only
girls, decreases with each additional child.%
\footnote{
For 2 children the likelihood of only boys or only girls
is 50\%, but for 4 children it is 12.5\% (assuming equal probability
of a boy or a girl).
}
Second, the more children you have the lower the marginal
utility of having another, which means that, for a given price
of prenatal scan, the less attractive it is to bear the cost of using
prenatal scans to ensure a specific sex.
As fertility fall to, say, two, however, those parents who had a girl as their 
first child will now want to use prenatal sex determination to 
ensure a balanced number of sons and daughters and this is why
the sex ratio is so unbalanced as the cost of children increases.
Parents who had a son as their first child would also want to
use sex selection to ensure both a son \emph{and} a daughter, but since
that option is not available here they have their
second birth without scan.

Stretching the interpretation of the model, think of $\alpha=0.5$ 
as capturing parents treating sons and daughters equally once born.
The use of sex selection to achieve balance---but only when the
fetus is female---could be a potential explanation for the
suggestion that sons and daughters are treated relatively equally and 
we are still seeing an unequal sex ratio.
What is relevant here it that there is no way to identify which 
of these two different types of son preference affect sex ratios 
from fertility data.
This is a concern because the way we currently measure son preference
allows us to capture only the distribution preference, and 
the different types of son preference likely have different policy 
implications.
